# Group Sale Tracker Video Script

Hey everyone. Thank you for taking a look at Group Sale Tracker. In this video, we will be going over some of the key functionality that you should expect to see with this web application.

## What is Group Sale Tracker

Group Sale Tracker is a free, easy to use app to help categorize your sales event. Maybe you are doing a yard sale, or a fundraiser, and just need a simple point of sale app, but don't want to spend any money on it. This is a great option for those use cases. Group Sale Tracker can handle multiple categories so you can see how much revenue was generated by a specific product, individual, or group of people. Group Sale Tracker totals everything up and packages the information in a clean and easy to understand format.

## Free

The best part about this app is that it is completely free for anyone to use, as much as they need it. The reason why is free is because all the information is stored on your browser, and not on a typical database. This will also improve privacy and security so there is nothing to worry about there. We will see how this works here in a bit.

## Mobile Responsive

This app is also designed to work on any size screen. This allows you to use a phone, tablet, or laptop. Whatever your preference is, you should not have a problem entering your information.

## Creating a New Sale

So let's take a look at how to create a new sale. On the homepage, select the button that says "Start a new group sale", or in the navigation, select "New Group Sale". Here, you can fill out a form for your initial sale setup. 

Enter the name of your sale. It could be something like "Neighborhood Yard Sale". Next, let's fill in the categories. Let's give them a name, and choose a color for each of them.

As a note, the color selector will be different depending on what browser or operating system you are using, so yours might look different than mine.

By default, you are given 4 categories. If you don't need one, then simply hit the "Delete" button next to it. If you need more, select "Add Category" and you will be given a new category. These colors are randomly generated, so you will get a unique color each time.

When you are ready to start, select "Start Sale"

## App

This app interface is pretty simple. On larger screens, the input for the current transaction is on the left, and the totals and past transactions are on the right. Everything starts out at 0 because we haven't actually entered in anything. So let's start that. 

Let's say that you are selling an item for #12. Easy enough. Let's enter a 12 in the field. You do not need to put any decimals in if you do not want to. We can also change the category the item is associated with by selecting the colored circle next to it. Here we can add a different category to that item if we need to. The default color is the first category in the initial setup. Now that is done, select "Add Item". Our Transaction Total now updates with $12. Let's add another one. Let's sell an item for $4.50. Add 4.5 to the input, and change the category to another one. Notice that the trasaction total does not update until you add that number to the transaction. Select "Add Item" and your Transaction total is updated to $16.50. 

Let's say that was the last item in that transaction. Select "Save and Clear" and see the totals update on the right. The Total Sales have been updated, and the Categories show how much was made in each, as well as how many items were sold. Below that, you can see the results for each individual transaction. Pretty neat, huh?

Okay, let's add a few more. I will speed through this to save you some time.

...

Cool, now we can see all the data that we have for the current sale. 

## Storage

Now here is the cool part. For many apps online that are not tied to a database, you will loose all the content on the page when you hit refresh, or close the browser. Let's see what happens when we do that.

As you can see, we still have our data here. This is what I mean by the app using your browser's storage. It is something built in to all modern browsers. If I change by browser, say go to Firefox, the data doesn't exist; because the data is stored in Opera. 

If I go back to the home page, you notice that there is a new button that asks if I want to continue my sale. 

## Hide Data

Okay, let's address the 3 buttons at top. The first one is to hide your data. You may not want your nosey customers to see how much money you have made. Simply select that option, and your data is hidden. Select "Show Sale Info" to toggle your data back again. Easy enough.

## Download Data

It's all nice and good that you have browser storage. But what if you want to share this data with someone else? Select "Download Data" and it will download a file titled with your sale name and current date (YYMMDD_HHMMSS), and saved as a .json format. If you open this up, it doesn't really make a whole lot of sense. But don't worry, it doesn't have to. That is what the upload data is for. We will get to that in a bit. 

## Delete Data

The last button is to delete your data. Maybe you are all done with it, and just want it off your computer. Select delete, and confirm that you don't want it anymore. Group Sale Tracker will erase all the data from your browser. Then it sends you back to the New Sale Setup page. Notice, you can't get back to the app, even if you wanted to. 

## Upload Data

Let's take a look at the Upload Data option. Select Upload Data from either the homepage, or the top navigation. This will open up your file system. Simply select the file you want, and there you have it. All the data you downloaded is back up and running. This allows you to send the file to a friend, or open it up in a different browser or maching. Now you can Peruse your data, or continue right where you left off. 

## Print Data

Some people may want to know how to get a hard copy of their data. The best way to get a hard copy is to print straight from the app page. When you go to print, it will hide everything that you don't need, and give you everything that you do need. Even if you print in Black and White, you still get some added labels showing sales from specific categories. Also, in many browsers you can save the page to a PDF if you want a PDF. This is also done from the print menu.

## Feedback

And that is pretty much all you need to know. If you have any grand ideas, or find a bug that I am not aware of, feel free to leave me a comment. If you enjoyed using the app, or feel that it was helpful, please also leave me a message. I would love to hear about what you used Group Sale Tracker for. 
